Using the OWASP TOP 2021 as a reference, there are quite a few surfaces of attack that we must make sure (with our best effort) are neutralized before we appropiately deploy our system.

Given that the Broken Access Control flaws took the first spot on 2021's list, it comes as a priority to enforce a varied set of measures targeting this potential security risk. In our case, we have 12 employees with full access (i.e total control) over the system. It raises the question of whether or not that many people (80% of the total workforce) having such master access is strictly necessary, and thus one of the first actions to take is to re-analyse the permission scheme within our startup. This is, being compliant with the principle of least privilege is a must.

Following the rankings, just one spot below there's the Cryptographic Failures flaw. We have to ensure every connection is authenticated, that the data sent through said connections is integral and confidential. With this in mind, protecting connection with modern solutions like TLS 1.3, which does away with cipher suites that do not guarantee forward secrecy and ephemeral duration of session master secrets. Making it much more robust and secure than it predecessor 1.2. Our server must use an approved, well-known, up-to-date, fully standard-compliant implementation like OpenSSL (which is open source, on top of it all). For remote administration, of course, the Secure Shell protocol (SSH). It is of immense importance that the authentication keys (.ssh/authorized_keys) for this protocol are strong and protected with great effort, never to be disclosed, under any circumstances.

User input has to be sanitized before being acted upon. This guarantees there's no malicious payloads being processed by the server, with the possibility of an scalation to remote code execution and getting control of a node within our cluster. This includes sanitizing the following (if any): SQL queries, dynamically generated HTML, dynamically generated scripts, system commands that depend on user input, request headers (as they can be injected with maliciously crafted payloads which could get executed in some cases like LFI and RFI) and server-side file includes that depend on user input.

As a general measure and as a expression of common sense, we need to keep all components up-to-date reduces attack surfaces and risk overall. Actively attacking our own system to test its hardiness as part of vulnerability assessment could potentially help us discover weak links and targets that we might decide to patch or not according to our risk tolerance. Additionally, we need to consider educating the team about security best practices and the importance of adhering to them.

Lastly, for Kubernetes-specific configurations and good practices, we have that, again and ideally, TLS must be used everywhere so traffic sniffing and modification (MITM attacks in general) are avoided. Both kubelets and the kube-apiserver on the control plane must possess valid certificates that might be rotated with certain periodicity to increase security. Cluster admins should preferably also prove their identity with certificates. All this Public Key Infrastructure must be bootstrapped as the very first thing before deployment. The lastest versions of Kubernetes include bootstrapping mechanism that spare system administrators the task of setting up most of said infrastructure manually.

